lbipam: allow sharing IPs across services that select different pods (#45819)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/network/lb-ipam.rst

If a service has a sharing key and also requests a specific IP, the service will be allocated the requested IP and it will be added to the set of IPs belonging to that sharing key.

By default, sharing IPs across namespaces is not allowed. To allow sharing across a namespace, set the ``lbipam.cilium.io/sharing-cross-namespace`` annotation to the namespaces the service can be shared with. The value must be a comma-separated list of namespaces. The annotation must be present on both services. You can allow all namespaces with ``*``.

Sharing an IP across services that select different pods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When both services use ``externalTrafficPolicy: Local``, LB IPAM by default requires the services to select the same set of pods. This guarantees that any node receiving traffic for the shared IP has a backend for every service sharing it; otherwise traffic would be dropped on nodes without a backend.

Reviewer: Given multiple services can share a single IP, I would consider rephrasing this first sentence slightly, just to improve clarity.

[Note: using this first comment to carry recommended wording before the warning. I'll start a new comment for wording below the warning.]

**Paragraph 1**
When multiple services with the same sharing key use ``externalTrafficPolicy: Local``, LB IPAM requires those services to select the same set of backend pods by default. This guarantees ...

**Paragraph 2**
This requirement can be relaxed when using an external traffic delivery mechanism that ensures traffic is only delivered to nodes with available backends-for example, in deployment that makes use of an external L4-aware load balancer that probes each service's ``healthCheckNodePort`` to determine which nodes are eligible to receive traffic.

**Paragraph 3**
Set the ``lbipam.cilium.io/sharing-permit-different-pods: "true"`` annotation on all services within the group to relax this requirement. LB IPAM will allow the services to share an IP even when their selectors differ. Services without a selector (Endpoints-based) will still be rejected because LB IPAM cannot determine which nodes are eligible to receive traffic.

Some deployments steer traffic with mechanisms outside Cilium's view, for example an external L4-aware load balancer that uses the per-service ``healthCheckNodePort`` to direct each connection only to nodes with a backend. In that case the same-selector requirement is too strict.

> Setting the ``lbipam.cilium.io/sharing-permit-different-pods: "true"`` annotation on both services opts out of this check. With the opt-in present on both services, LB IPAM allows them to share an IP even when their selectors differ. The annotation only relaxes the same-selector requirement; services without a selector (Endpoints-based) are still rejected because LB IPAM cannot read endpoints to determine where traffic should land.

Reviewer 2: More than two services can share an IP.

```suggestion
Setting the ``lbipam.cilium.io/sharing-permit-different-pods: "true"`` annotation on all services opts out of this check. With the opt-in present on all services with the same sharing key, LB IPAM allows them to share an IP even when their selectors differ. The annotation only relaxes the same-selector requirement; services without a selector (Endpoints-based) are still rejected because LB IPAM cannot read endpoints to determine where traffic should land.
```

Author: Applied, thanks. Also corrected the same "both"->"all" wording in the commit message and the PR description for consistency.

.. warning::

   This annotation disables a safety check. The user is responsible for ensuring traffic only reaches nodes that have a backend for the destination service.

>    Cilium's built-in BGP and L2 announcements are **not** L4 aware and will advertise the shared IP from every node that hosts at least one of the sharing services. Combining this opt-in with those announcers can result in dropped traffic.

Reviewer: I would tweak the paragraph to remove "sharing services".

Eg:

"... from every node that hosts at least one service using the sharing key. Using the ``lbipam.cilium.io/sharing-permit-different-pods: "true"`` annotation with services that use either Cilium's BGP or L2 Announcements can result in dropped traffic."

>    Safe ways to use it include an L4-aware external load balancer that respects each service's ``healthCheckNodePort``, or deploying every service in the sharing group as a DaemonSet with matching node coverage so all nodes host all backends.

Reviewer: I'm not sure it's necessary to suggest using an L4-aware external load balancer here, given this scenario is used as an example above. I would suggest it's implied.

Perhaps you could join the latter suggestion to the paragraph above -- that way, you're highlighting a risk and an option to mitigate it in one place. What do you think?

Eg:

"... or L2 Announcements can result in dropped traffic. To mitigate this, consider deploying every service with the same sharing key annotation as a DaemonSet with matching node coverage, so all nodes host all backends."
